Decode the Vibe : Q & A with the leaders behind the Vibe Coding Week: 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Minimum text size reached
July 24th, 2025
8:00 AM - 8:45 AM EDT
Cognizant Decode the Vibe: Q&A with Leaders
Event Logo
>> Hi. Good morning. Good afternoon and good evening, everyone. We're thrilled to have you join us today for a deep dive on by coding and to answer some of the questions that are on your mind. We have six of our leaders here with us today, including our CEO Ravi Kumar. Throughout the call, we encourage you to share your questions with us in the chat, and we'll get to those right after some opening remarks. And with that, Ravi, I hand it over to you.

>> Great. Thank you. Thank you, Andrea, and thank you all for joining in today. Very, very delighted to be here. Let me just, kick it off. Talking about, the broad context of why we're doing this event and even before I do that, I wanted to thank, the 250 000 odd people who are, getting registered on the event. It starts on 30th of, July for a week. And, the people who joined today. Thank you again. It's a unique opportunity for us. And the reason why we're doing this at this scale is to acknowledge that around us, it's an attempt we are making to be officially on the Guinness World Record for the largest online generative AI, hackathon. What we're calling it as vibe coding. And I'm pretty confident that we'll come out very successful. Now, why are we doing this? Doing it at this scale, you know, all of us in the industry we are in, we're in the industry of, of applying technology to enterprise landscapes and, it so happens that over the last 35, 40 years, we've been writing code, managing software development cycles. Using human labor and using human labor and human intellect. It so happens that with the advent of generative AI, this opportunity, parts of the cycle actually can be done by, generative AI algorithms or machines, as I call them. So the new endeavor for software development, software development, life cycles, is actually going to be human. Plus digital labor or a or an endeavor of machines and humans. It so happens that as this is evolving, the single largest use case for generative AI is actually software development cycles. Now, it's important not only for us to acknowledge, but also be a part of this evolution, as this takes off like a hockey stick, you know, just a few quarters ago, we said we have 20% of our code written by us AI in our company. In our company, 20% of our code is written by generative AI, be it tools, our clients have prescribed or tools we have, we have actually leveraged, there are many leaders in the market today who say that, they see 50% of the code written by machines, depending on whether this is new code, depending on this is a iteration of an old code depending on the software development cycle or depending on the phase of the software development cycle, that number spans all the way till 50. The pace at which this is advancing, in fact, if you look at all the tech revolutions which have happened so far, the Moore's Law as they call it, the Moore's Law took 18 to 24 months to scale. This is actually now less than six months to double in efficiency and half in cost. So writing code is going to be, human plus machine endeavor. We could either believe that our jobs are going to be shrunk, or we could believe that our jobs could be productive. I would rather build on on a future where our jobs are more productive, using the tooling. So our journey now is going to be about how do we use the tooling? Forget about the classical way of writing code. If you've not written code ever, you should never think that code was written only with human labor. If you've written code before and you've written it just yourself, you have to forget. You have to take that, muscle memory out and actually assume that writing code, software development cycles, activities of the software development cycles are actually done. With AI algorithms attached to us. In fact, we demoed in a in a recent, event in London in for for our clients in London. We demoed a software open cycle with a not just AI algorithm based code assessed based platforms using agents. Using agent, using agents to do parallel processing of activities as humans work on software development cycles. So you increase the velocity, reduce the total cost of ownership, and, increase the quality of, output you bring. So what does this do to all of us? It makes all of us producers a large part of, the 250,000 employees who will participate in the white code. I mean, two, 50,000 is a big number. Remember, not everybody in the company, you know, is involved with just software development cycles. A large number of them have never written code before. A large number of them have written code before. So we're bringing all communities together to express the future. I mean, the reason why it's called vibe coding is you should be able to express and machines should be able to write things for you. I mean, that's the future we are all getting into. You. Can you can say that if you do this efficiently, you will. You will actually be significantly more productive. Not in a non-linear way, significantly more productive than any of your colleagues in other companies, any of your friends in other companies, and colleagues inside the company. So that is what we want to, we want to achieve. We want to make you aware of this world. We want you to we want you to do the we want you to work in the future with all the AI tooling around you. And we want to be very productive in fact, this quarter, we already had 27% in the company where code is written by machines. So there is a team which is going to help you understand what's available. There. Are there are, you know, there are teams which have been assembled to solve complex problems. We have masterclasses, we have, we have competition between teams. We have awareness sessions. We have, boot camp, kind of, exercises where you can learn something about it. And, it's in a self, it's in a self paced manner so that depending on where you are, there is opportunity for you to gain and learn something around it. We are a learning organization. This is important for us. Trust me on this. The old classical way of writing code is not even going to be discussed in a few months. It's going to be completely out of the window. It's already out of the window. So you have to adapt to this new, new situation. I'm excited about the fact that such large numbers have actually shown up to do this, and we will be the number one company on the planet in terms of the, we hope to be the number one company on the planet in terms of, in terms of adopting AI tooling, at this scale, I tend to believe that, all of us will rally behind this cause, so. As you do this, I also, you know, as you understand, the tools, log into the tools as you attend the trainings. Do do the masterclasses, participate in it, take it back to your projects. Take it back to your projects. This is not a one day journey. This is a starting point. We want to evolve and take it back to your projects. Take assistance from our teams to adapt into the projects. Take it back to your clients. There will be tooling which your clients have. There will be tooling, which we have. Pick whatever makes sense. And, and there is a proliferation of tools. Remember, this is a new space. So at, at some point of time, all of this will get consolidated. But right now you have choices to make. And then once you've learned, you have created something exciting, you know, take it to the communities. I mean, take it to social media, take it to your friends, take it to your managers, take it to your loved ones, share your vibe. Coding adventure. In the spirit of, vibe coding, share your vibe coding adventure and, there is every for everybody in the in the organization, irrespective of who you are, which function you belong to. We have something attached to. We have something for you to learn and we have something for you to, transition into this new era. So be, you know, be active, be participate in this journey. excited about, the possibilities as this event kicks off on the 30th. As I said, we are making an attempt to be on the Guinness Book of Records. Thank you again for participating and thank you for the enthusiastic, extraordinary response we got.

>> Here, Ravi. So the number one question we've been receiving is what's next? After employees register and they select their preferred tool, what steps should they be taking? So Ravi, Neil, John. Thoughts on next steps after employees register?

>> Andrea I can start right before we, let me let me level set a little bit. There are for the event. We are offering five flavors of tools. That is GitHub Copilot available. That is Gemini code is available. That is windsurf cursor and lovable. Available. Right. All five of these have been acquired provisioned across the enterprise for people who have registered. So all of you who have registered should also have gotten emails from the registration system on what the next steps are with regards to download support. Single sign on and all the other things right? Our our next big question we're asking all of you is to download the software. Right. If you have to set up single sign on and set up all of the stuff you need to set up. So that it's functioning effectively on your computers. So when we start this week, next week, next Wednesday, we're actually hitting the ground running, right? The number one ask for us is let's get all the support elements behind us this week as much as possible. Okay. The second item for us to think about it is for users are lovable, right? That is that is we will we will follow up shortly with some recommendations on how to consume the the broader token count. We're aggressively working with the vendor and with the partner with regards to increasing what's available to us. There is a token count, limitations. We will share, and we will also share some best practices around how to consume those tokens, available tokens and get the most value out of it. Okay, so John, I'm going to pass it to you. Yeah.

>> Thank you Neal I'm excited about this event. And opportunity coming up for all of us. As you can imagine, I received various different love notes, as does the security team in terms of how can we open up more access to. I do so in a secure, safe way. And this event is a catalyst to do exactly that. We're opening access up to these tools. We're enabling the for you to be able to engage in them. And we're doing so in a way that is designed to work in within the constraints of our clients agreements, and in a way that's safe, in a way that's secure. So I encourage all to engage, use the processes that we have as we register through the portal. If you have challenges with any of the tools, let us know. Just as Neil stated, we want to make sure you're set up for success and you have a great vibe. Coding event. My only ask is follow the rules, follow the practices we put in place that allows us to make sure that we can create a positive experience for you, as well as ensuring that we don't create any concerns for our clients. Our goal on the other side of this event is continue to open up access and continue to make these tools readily available as part of the way, our new way of working with our clients. Thank you.

>> Okay, a quick, thing from, from my side, I think obviously. Like, what Neil and John have called out, I think we've received, you know, multiple responses in terms of how, how do we handle situations where in terms of, you know, you know, associate. Oh, is there a okay.

>> Hi. All apologies for some technical difficulties. We've been having, but hopefully everything is resolved now. So we're going to take it from the top with our Q&A. The number one question that we've been receiving is what's next? So after employees register and they select their preferred tool, what steps should they be taking? So Ravi, Neil and John, I will hand that question over to you.

>> Okay. Thank you. Andrea. Let me let me start and then I'll ask my partners to sort of jump in here. To start off with, we want to, you know, we're extremely excited on the opportunity this presents to us next week. And I think it's not that often in a career that you get to be part of something so big as part of, you're going to be part of the Guinness Book of World Records. So and I think we're all looking forward to it as leaders. And I'm hoping that everybody in the organization is going to take advantage of this right. From a from a tooling perspective, there are five tools we're provisioning is default offerings, right for for the event. So it's GitHub Copilot, Gemini code assist, cursor windsurf and lovable okay. All of these right. You should have gotten emails from the registration platform. And how to consume them. How to get them set up, how to deploy them on your devices, how to go through the initial setups, get Social Security and single sign ons and all the other things enabled. Or my number one ask is if you could if you could finish all those activities this week, make sure that the systems are set up. The accesses are available to you. So all of the support elements are behind you this week. So when we when we hit the ground running next week, next Wednesday, the all of the platforms are fully usable right. Versus dealing with production support issues to support issues locally. Okay. That's number one. Number two, for users of lovable, we will come back to you with in short order with best practices around how to consume the available tokens. Because and I think that is a large amount of tokens. We have acquired for the whole company. Right across, across 75,000 users to be able to use for for the event. And we're looking to expand it. Right. But in the meantime, we would come back to you. We could we're going to come back to you with some recommendations around how to best consume the tokens. The experience next week is going to be the most effective for everybody involved, especially for the lovable users. Yeah. John, over to you. Yeah.

>> Thanks, Neil. I'm excited about this event for several reasons. First, I think this is long overdue that we have determined a way in order to safely enable and begin opening access to more and more. AI tools. I know it's been the number one goal that we have as a company to be an AI. First company, and this project and the vibe coding event is a great way to begin that experience and journey. If you have not begin to use these tools, please take advantage. Use this as an opportunity. We've been thoughtful about the tools selection, working with clients, ensuring that we have a safe mechanism to try the tools to experience vibe coding. Take advantage of it, and know that this is the starting point so we can determine really where the opportunities are, how they enhance your ability. To do your job and the role in the future. And this will guide us in how we continue to open up access of tools across cognizant following the event. So thank you. Please follow the rules and I hope you have a great event.

>> Thank you John. Folks, I think between Neil and John, I think they've given a good context of what's coming up. We still have a lot of communications that we are sending out. You will probably be getting quite a bit of communication over the next few days. All the way till the launch on the 30th. Having said that, obviously some, some of the things say, for example, you know, when you're using tools like lovable, there are certain, guidelines, best practices that we've been publishing and there's more of that that we are working on, which will get pushed over the next few days. What's the best way to think about ideas? How do you then utilize the, the prompts and the tokens in the best way so that, you know, you can get a very good sense of how the, outcome is going to look like and so on. So, what I would encourage everyone is to kind of step back a little bit and kind of think about, you know, some of the things that you would like to, you know, get as an outcome out of this exercise. Maybe it doesn't hurt kind of looking at some of the best practices to see how you want to, you go define your prompts, define your thought process and so on. And build on it. There's a lot more to come. I think we are also looking at, you know, what's the best way to kind of look at all the outcome with almost 240,000 to 50,000 people registered so far? And quite a few of you are going to be actually participating, starting on the 30th. We want to make sure that there's a way we can, you know, infuse a little more of a competition as we go along. There's there's a little bit of some, some surprise things that we are going to send out over the next few days. So just wait for that. And there's a lot of information that is being shared in different forums. We are trying to address. As soon as we can in terms of some of the challenges that you're facing, and we will continue to do that. You know, that's where we are. And, you know, let's have a great week over to you, Andrea.

>> Thank you. Ravi, Neil and John, we've also been getting a lot of questions around changing tools. Is it possible for employees to change their vibe coding tool once they've already selected one? Are you?

>> Thank you. Hello, everybody. Super excited to be part of this, vibe Coding week. First of all, thank you for, such a huge response to the registration event. I don't know how many of you know the entire registration platform that you all used to register was completely white coded. More than 100, 100 lines of code. Not a single line of code has been written by a human. That's an art of possible in front of your eyes, you know, bursting the myth of coding is for MVP or a quick, prototyping. This application has gone live. We are glad that more than 300,000 visitors, leverage the platform. The platform encompasses quite a bit of a learning assistance for you. You will be able to go through any of the tools or, you know, understand how vibing works. How do you actually do a prompting, you know, whatever is required. And it also has been, tightly, through NAACP connected with the corporate systems like your, collaboration platform, like Viva engage or teams for seeking support and help. We have seen in these channels, of help. There is one question that has come up again and again is, you know, I have registered for a tool, even though we are told that you should read through, understand, choose a tool of your choice where you will enjoy why being rather than feel it as a pain. While the, are also highlighted the process that happens after you select the tool. Once you select the tool, as you can imagine, it's a 250,000 people. We need to push the, the software, the licenses, and once a license is given to one person, the total count from marketing goes down. So in that process, the moment you raise an registration request and select your tool, the provisioning process starts behind the scenes. So given that, situation, ideally it's not recommended or it's not very easy to change the tool choice that you've selected in the system. After going through, you details on what it is. But so far, maybe you would have received, more than maybe a 303, 53, 50 request to change your tools. Again, the registration of 250,000, while it's a small number, we are seriously looking at what are the options available? There are two ways we can, you know, this may happen provided the choice of tool that you are asking for. If it is available and without disturbing the rest of the 240, 45,000 people you are able to get this. We will try and make it happen. Meanwhile, I would always encourage if you have chosen a tool and that's not being changed, I would suggest it's not about, a specific tool. You try and, you know, kind of understand, learn and keep vibing on it. We'll come back to you with more communication as we get closer to the date. Thank you. Over to you, Andrea.

>> Thank you so much, Ariel. There's also been a lot of chatter about a live coding challenge. Alexis, could you tell us a little bit more about that?

>> Sure. Andrea I think.

>> What arrow did.

>> Not tell us is that behind this whole platform that you see are just two people, 70% of what they have done got done over the weekend. So that's a challenge that sets the bar, so to speak, in terms of what can be done, what can be achieved. Now we have a few few, aspirations for this week and the preceding period. Right at the end of the week, when you look at you as an individual associate, look at yourself in the mirror. What we want you to see is yourself up a few steps on the JNI ladder. Imagine that happens to 230,000 people. The whole organization would be up a few notches. And that's a phenomenal advantage to us as a company. Now, secondly, yes, is there a challenge? The answer is yes, but it's more to more to aspects to the challenge. Challenge yourself and feel good that you came out better. On the other side. But as teams and as associates, we we will, run a evaluation of sorts. The characters for which we will evaluate the projects are characteristics are one the robustness of the idea, the strength of the solution and the benefits that are proposed, innovativeness of the solution. User experience of the app that you have developed, potential opportunity within and outside in on the business side, ease of implementation, scalability and some aspects of coding. Now evaluating this for 100,000 200,000 people is not going to be manually possible like we do in inspire. Using multiple levels of people. So again, here, rose team and our Babak's team, who's are, you know, CTO for? I are working together along with us. Of course, we are providing the broad idea, but they are the ones who are doing the hard work of developing a agentic AI solution that will evaluate all these ideas. Now, the good news is these, this the POC is working, the MVP is working. We are now testing whether it will scale because we want it to run through, say, 200,000 ideas in a matter of 24 hours on day three basis, which will shortlist about 10,000 and open up the repo and deploy licenses for people to continue to work. We will come back to you by Monday or so if we are able to scale the evaluation process, or we will announce, other parameters for celebrating the vibing event. That's what we are thinking back to you, Andrea.

>> Thank you. Alexis, a lot of employees are also curious what happens to their access to tools after Coding week. So, Neil, John, could you share just a little about that?

>> Yeah. Thank you. Andrea. So a big part of this week is what Ravi was talking earlier. So you were talking earlier on, this is the start of the race of the marathon, right? So I think we're going to learn a lot as an organization across the board. So this is also a great feedback opportunity for us to collect from all of you as to how what you think about the tools. Right. And also that will also form a basis for when we think about broader tools, utilization and acquisition across the whole company. Okay, so what will happen, Andrea, is in. Shortly after our event ends. Right. The tools access will be retracted and then we will come back with a broader announcement on what tools we're going to acquire. And make, enable the whole company. Now, I'll let John talk a little bit about, from a security perspective, there are a lot of other technology investments we have made recently which will continue to give more web based access. But from a from a development tools point of view, GitHub and Gemini code and some of those tools we already procured will stay in the picture. Tools such as cursor, windsurf and lovable. Our goal would be to sit back and draw, you know, acquire some enterprise agreements for the whole company can benefit from. But we are going to do that after we collect the feedback from all of you in short order, right after the event ends. And then we'll come back, there'll be some broader announcements across the company around what those tool sets are going to be. How are we going to deploy them, and how can people take advantage of those?

>> Thank you. Neal. As I stated, we rarely use this event to accelerate investments in security tools. And capabilities to improve the way we open and securely and safely open access to AI tools. And the goal with that is to continue to open that access beyond the vibe coding event. So while certain tools you may lose your ability to log in and use them, because we put temporary agreements in place for the coding event, there will be other tools. You will still continue to have access to. And one of the goals that we do have is to ensure that following the event, we work collaboratively with our client partners and our delivery partners to identify the key tools needed for success within each client project and begin an improved process of enabling those tools in waves. With the goal that by the end of this year, we look back and see a dramatic improvement in terms of what is available, how it is being used, and obviously your feedback loop on that. Overall experience. So you can see this as the beginning of a new and exciting rapid journey.

>> Thank you, Neal and John. We're getting a lot of questions in the chat. One question, if you got started on a platform like lovable right before vibe Coding Week, can you then move your project into the cognizant ecosystem? And how do credits work?

>> It's a it's a it's a really question the right now we have asked lovable to enable some temporary credits for people to get used to. Right. And then the plan is to activate the broader enterprise credits we have acquired the day off. The day of the event. So it's a good question. Let me take that away. Right. I will come back to you with an answer. If people have started some initiatives, I want to make sure from a lovable perspective that it's not going to be reset done. So people are not going to use lose those ideas. Let me. We will come back to this team with a with a set of recommendations. And next action items around what how that will work for work which is or which people might have started before the event.

>> Thank you. Neal. There are also a lot of questions around projects. Is there a cap to the number of projects that associates can submit?

>> I can take that question. No, there is no limit on number of projects a team can submit. In reality, as they why some projects they may feel they are stuck midway. They might have started a new project. That's perfectly fine, whether they are using either lovable or any other platform they can continue to submit as many ideas as an individual or a team that should be perfectly fine.

>> Thank you. Ari. Also, on the topic of projects, will the organization give associates some problems to begin with or or associates free to create and explore on their own?

>> I can, I can take that. I think I heard you if the organization is going to set some problems to solve. Right. I think it's a hybrid. Answer one we would like you to solve the problems that you are facing on the ground, along with your team and solve them. And then see how it can be exported to come up with innovative solutions. I mean, there are some issues that we may not have thought about, but, you could come up with an interesting idea that you want to test out. And feel free to do that using this, platforms that we have made available. And but we are also what we are doing is some businesses are doing is sort of coming together and running some hackathons of sorts. Coming up with a set of ideas that the teams can code to. So all, all, all modes of, ideation and vibing are at play. Currently, there is no one way that is better than the other. All are open.

>> Thank you. Alexis associates are really excited about the idea of being able to come up with innovative solutions. So one question we received is, will the applications or things that they develop, be open to the marketplace eventually.

>> I can I can take that. So the thought process currently is, is like this on the non lovable track. As you can see, Alexis explained, we will evaluate and select the top 10,000 ideas, give them, git and the runtime access so they continue to vibe. And we have we are thinking depending on, the size we may shortlist down select to maybe a hundred applications or so, which potentially can as an opportunity to get into the enterprise systems and eventually gets enhanced to make it make its way into probably could become an accelerator. It could solve probably our enterprise. Issues. It may go mainstream and, in I am responsible for ensuring that these are, you know, kind of a certified within the organization. And it is taken through our own associates or to our customers as part of the I industrialization journey, people on the lovable side, we are working with lovable to allow us to export the source code, through a zip file on the selected entities. So that whatever is hosted, we can probably take them through a channel within our organization. And over a period of time, a similar approach on the the best ideas or the best applications will get retained within the organization for going mainstream.

>> Thank you. Aru. We have also received a couple of questions as it pertains to client. One question is will we be able to transfer apps to the client setting?

>> As we speak, that we wanted to be do it very carefully. I know, John Neil, you can you can add on to this the thought process is if, a similar application needs to be created within the environment, is the potential way we don't expect the same application to be ported into the customer's environment. As it stands, considering the, the security and the, expectations from the customers, etc.. John, you want to add anything from from a security point of view?

>> No, I think you positioned very well. And thank you for your partnership. I think the coming outside of the event, we will be evaluating all the projects and what I would say is if you've landed on a project, something you've created, a new idea that you think would benefit the client. My my ask and recommendation would be starting with your CPE and EDP and having the conversation about how you're going to position that in the project. If ultimately the decision is there's value, you do want to position it, and we need to work jointly on enablement, that that is where the security organization, in particular the business information security organization, will work hand in glove with the CPE and EDP to enable that approach for you. We want to do so in a way in which we have client consent. And also we're understanding what we're offering to the client, as there may be commercial needs and agreement as part of that.

>> Thank you. We've also received a couple of.

>> Can I quickly jump in here? I think, what John said is spot on is to add to it, look, pick the problems you believe you see in your projects. Pick the things you believe you couldn't do because either you didn't have the bandwidth or you felt like, you know, there was more, significantly more effort needed to, build something like that. When you have to take it to clients. I think, first of all, you should tell all your clients that we are running this event with 200,000 plus employees coming together. We we've got a chance to experiment with a lot of tooling. And, some of your client problems, which you believe you are trying to solve. Work with your client partners to, present it back to your clients. Sometimes those conversations will help. Help you to start to position yourself as a company, which is highly productive and is not just burning human labor, but is, but is significantly productive. I mean, it's non-linearly productive. If I may, because that's what clients want. If you can continue on those projects, we should transition them to the Blue Boat initiative or keep them in the pipe to, do more work. If needed before, it can potentially be, you know, presented back to clients as rapid prototypes or proof of concepts.

>> Thank you. Ravi. One final question for you. How will cognizant measure success for vibe Coding Week? What are we striving for?

>> You know, Andrea, the way I see this is the larger objective for us is everyone inside cognizant who participates in this event, expresses themselves, should come out positive, learning about the future of software development, and hopefully they applied to their projects. And that's what we want them. We want each one of the one of our employees in the company to get more professional learning on our platform, be better, you know, be better at what they do. And, potentially generate more value for our clients. And, create better career paths for themselves. Remember all this tooling is invested by the company for you to actually stay abreast with what's happening around us. So it will be it. That is what I'm hoping. I'm hoping everybody comes out and says, I've learned something new. I'm hoping they come back and say, wow, we didn't realize everything we did so far can be done in a more efficient, more productive way. Which means I can do more for less. If I can do more for less, the paradox is I will get to do more, which then means I will be a better professional. I will have a better career, and I'm going to generate better value to our clients. I think that's how I see it. And all of us have to be on that learning curve. We are living in a world which is such high clock speed that if you are obsessed with it, you want to, you want to realize. Significant value for yourselves. I mean, needless to say, you'll be you'll be paid better. You'll have a better career, and you'll be more valuable for all the stakeholders around you. That's how I'm seeing this. This event is all about building those communities, and this is a starting point. As Neil said, in a marathon, this is a starting point. We want this to continue on a daily lives every day, every day you walk into office, you need to see more AI tooling around you.

>> Ravi, and I want to take time just to thank everyone for tuning in today. We received over 1500 questions and we will go through them all in detail and answer the most common in a future communication. The session was recorded, so we will send out the full recording as soon as it's available. We sincerely apologize for the technical issues that you experienced earlier, but we do appreciate the time you spent with us today, and we look forward to a successful vibe coding week. Thank you all so much.


